This is Jockel podcast number 151 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, I go. Good evening. And we haven't done a Q&A for a while and we're
going to roll into a Q&A and normally quite frankly, normally the Q&A is when we
show up for the Q&A is there's a little bit of a different atmosphere. Well, say, right?
We're a little bit of levity in the room. We're not going to talk about war. We're
not going to be reading about men being wounded or killed. We're not going to be reading
about some atrocity. And here and what people go through, we're going to be answering
questions. And there's a little bit more just light-heartedness to the whole thing,
usually. Sometimes it goes a little bit one way or the other. But this is, there's just a
little bit of a different situation in the recording room right now. Because we just did a,
and this is kind of surprising. Because we just did a war your kid podcast. And in the
war your kid podcast, I answer questions from kids for Uncle Jake. And those are all, you
know, kind of just little neat little kid questions. Hey, our cheeseburgers, good for you.
And what do I do when I'm nervous that it's a Jockel tournament? And what do I do when I
can't remember how to spell Mississippi? You know, just like these nice little kid
questions and their fun. And yet, you know, I treat them seriously because kids have serious
questions. And when you're a little kid, those are real problems. Those aren't, we laugh at them.
Now you're laughing at them. No. Like, well, the Mississippi one, right? You're a real
laughing at the kids, the issues. But then what I started doing a little while ago is I started telling
these stories from the perspective of Uncle Jake when Uncle Jake was a kid. And some of those
are a little bit more, they're a little bit more serious, but there's always a very big lesson
if you learned because my goal with the stories from Uncle Jake is that kids can end up
understanding how Uncle Jake kind of formulated his values as a man. And we've talked about a bunch
of different ones of those. But anyways, the one that I did today and what's interesting is all these
stories are kind of based on their based loosely around around things that I've experienced. And this
is very, some of them very loosely, some of them not so loose on things that I've actually
experienced things that I went through because I'm not Uncle Jake. But sure, I have some similar
experiences that Uncle Jake has had along the way. And anyways, today I wanted to make the point
to kids that the decisions that they make in their life are they have a big impact, right? And if
you make little decisions when you're a kid, you start making bad decisions when you're a little
kid, those bad decisions eventually add up. And if you make good decisions, those decisions will add
up and you'll in the one case you'll end up with good things. If you make good decisions, if you
make bad decisions, you'll end up in a bad situation. And I told this story from Uncle Jake's perspective
about Uncle Jake's best friend when he was grown up and it was a kid named Jeff and they were
best friends. They did everything together and they they played and they did practical jokes and they
laughed an out of great time. And eventually Jeff starts making some bad decisions. He gets in trouble
in class and he gets in more trouble than he gets suspended from recess and just and then the next thing
you know, he starts really going down a bad path and starts using drugs in alcohol and eventually
and again, this is a long, this is not a long story, but it's probably takes about 10 minutes to
tell on the podcast on the warrior kid podcast and then eventually I leave high school, we graduate
from high school and I kind of talk about seeing him and this is what's true like so this is true.
So this is based on true story. I had a best friend when I was a kid. His name was Jeff. He was an
awesome kid. He was funny and what he's one of those kids, I've talked about this before like
some kids they have a little spark to him and it's not a lot. It's very few kids. They have this
little spark. They've got this little thing about them that you go okay that person has something.
Now that spark doesn't guarantee anything. In fact that spark can be a problem because that spark
can catch fire and it can be an uncontrollable fire or it can be a fire that can be used to fuel and
grow and create awesome things and you don't really know, you can't really control it. That
person has to have control of that spark. Well Jeff was one of those kids that had like this
spark. He was charismatic. He was funny. He was smart. He was a witty. He was courageous but he just
for whatever reason had like a little spin to him that didn't mind getting in trouble. It's almost
like an attitude like hey these guys can't hold me down and so you know when we were in fifth grade
it was actually in fifth grade where we sat next to each other every day and we would start you know
we would just hang out all the time and laugh and eventually he started getting in trouble and I
didn't right and I would get in some trouble but he would cross the line and he'd cross the line
to where all of a sudden you know he would get it sent to the principal's office and be that kind of
trouble. One level above that kind of trouble I would get in which is like hey
get yelled at you got to be quiet. Hey you know you go sit in the corner those things I got
but I didn't cross the line which is hey I'm not I'm out of control in the class. I'm so disruptive
that you got to get me out of class I never crossed that line. He started crossing that line and
eventually you know like and I told in the story you know he started using drugs and I'll call
and I thought about it. What do I want to talk about drugs now call in the warrior kid podcast
and then I thought to myself yes I do because if you don't think kids here about drugs now call
right now when they're seven years old eight years old nine years old you're wrong drugs are out there
it's a different world and you might as well tell them when they're young that these things are
problematic well with Jeff you know Jeff went down the path of starting you know smoke and
drink and and all that stuff doing drugs and I didn't I you know he started getting into
that kind of thing I started getting into like hardcore music and being like disciplined and
all that stuff which again and I call it what you want call to trend call it me conforming to something
whatever you want to call it but that's what I did that's what I got into I related to it let me
put it to that way so eventually Jeff becomes like a burnout you know what I mean he he becomes
yeah like a burnout you know he cut classes and he you know just kind of went down that spiral
and the weird thing is we were such good friends when were your kids at it we didn't
not like each other anymore you know I didn't like have a falling out with them we just we just
went our separate ways and so when I would see him in school I'd seem in the hallway you
I'd see him in town you know we were talk and you could see I could see in his eyes like in his eyes
like he knew he was going in the wrong direction and we would still laugh and we would still have
a good time we would joke about things and then we'd we'd walk away from each other and he'd keep
kept going down the path he was going down and I kept going down the path I was going on and as time
went by you know he just was a complete burnout I thought I don't even remember if he graduated high
school or not I graduated high school and I joined the Navy and you know I was going to go try and
be a seal that was my big big goal right and he was going to do whatever he was going to do
and the last time I saw him again like I remember I saw him and it was like in my mind and it
wasn't quite mature enough to really recognize what I saw like at the time but as I look back
on it was like there was like this element of sadness for him seeing that I was going I was like
for lack of a better word like getting away right I was going to go I was going to go do something
right and he was going to not and you could see that and at this point like I don't even know if
he could have gotten the military he'd been quite a bit of trouble and had used a lot of drugs and
I don't even know if he could have gotten in the military at this point so and but when we were
little kids mind you we were running around playing BB gun wars and you know setting up
forts and running around and came off was out fits you know that's what we were doing so it's
like I was going to do that for real and he was going to keep doing what he was doing which was
not good stuff and so when I saw him for the last time you know like we shook hands and again like
I could see in his eyes this this element of sadness that he was doing what his life had gone
in this direction and my life had gone in this other direction and he was I don't even want to
use the term jealous because I don't think he was jealous he wasn't jealous at all he was to absolutely
he was actually like kind of proud you could see in his eyes like man that's awesome and he said
like good luck you know and we shook hands and it broke hugged and then I then I just you know
I left it during the Navy and went to boot camp and and I remember I was in the seal training
and I was probably a month or two in the seal training and I talked to my mom and
she told me that if this guy this guy Jeff would been my best friend from probably first grade through
like fifth grade and then like I said it separated but he killed himself and 19 years old killed himself
and so in the in the story that Uncle Jake tells I don't tell that part I don't talk about suicide
but I just say that he died and he died from drugs now call which indirectly is true
you know that's what killed him is that he was doing drugs and drinking and he wasn't making
clear decisions and went down that path of depression and ended up killing himself and
and I remember going you know I was going through seal training so I was you know definitely
shocked and and saddened by it and I had to do work and it was one of those things but as I
looked back on it like these were just little tiny decisions like I made a decision he made a decision
he made a decision I made a positive decision about something he made a negative decision
I made a good decision he made a bad decision these aren't huge decisions that I'm talking about
but it was these little tiny decisions that added up over time and I think a lot of times
kids they don't recognize that they don't recognize that these little I mean sure if you make a
one big bad decision you go drinking and driving you're right you can you can kill yourself
you can kill someone else you can ruin your whole life and one bad decision but where did that
one bad decision came from it came from a bunch of bad decisions it came from hanging around
with the bad people it came with starting to drink in the first place it came with even having the
attitude that I can get away with stuff like there's a lot of little bad decisions that led up
to this one bad big bad decision that actually ends up putting you in a bad way so that's the story
that I just told on the warrior kid podcast and again I know it's kind of a heavy story
in fact it's a very heavy story and that's another thing with like as I said to myself well
should I talk about should I say that he ended up in jail or something like that
and I said to myself no like this is the reality of life and if kids are not taught the
reality of life again you're not trying to smack them in the face with it I'm not trying to
to make them paranoid you know and that's kind of why I thought the suicide part was a step too far
but you know it's like in Mikey and the dragons I talk about how there's dragons that are ready to kill
and luckily you know I'm publishing I own the publishing company that's making this book because
a lot of my editors probably wouldn't like to hear that a normal children's editor doesn't want to
hear killing right and as and and also in the book the the king dies right the the king is dead
and he's there's a funeral form and that's another thing like well do you really want to talk
about that with little kids and as I asked myself that question for the first time I answered it in like a
milliseconds with there's kids out there whose dad dies when they're five years old whose mom dies
when they're seven years old whose grandma dies who's dog dies like death is part of life
and to pretend that it doesn't exist and hope that your kids are just going to one day
figure it out that's not the right thing to do they should understand it and so the the last part
about this thing about Jeff was you know again he had this spark he was funny and he was just a really
good awesome guy and I when I got done you know what I did I did like the typical
whatever 11 o'clock at night sitting at the computer thing when I got done writing this thing
and I just googled him I just googled him and just googled his name is full name and
it was the weirdest thing because when I googled him there was nothing there was nothing
no nothing not a name you couldn't his name no obituary no nothing just nothing
and that kind of shook me up a little bit and the way it shakes me up is it shakes me up in the fact that
that guy had more intelligence than me he had more talent than me he was more charismatic than me
he had all these things that were better than me and yet google which I don't know if you ever
googled like as I google a lot of stuff all the time because I google you know people that
were in the military I google authors poets people that wrote some random like I'll find online
some letter from some Lance corporal in World War II I'll google that person and guess what that
person will there'll be article about them there'll be there'll be his obituary about what he did with
his life and that's that's what it was wife and his wife died in 19 you know 68 and she had done
and so you can get so much information about just anyone anyone and so I googled my friend Jeff
and there's nothing nothing and that's a person that Jeff had he gone down the right path
he would have left a giant mark on the world and would have done a lot of positive things
and done beautiful things in the world and to think that it's all gone and it's all lost
it's lost and there's not a damn thing about him so teacher kids to make the right decisions
is what I'm saying yeah so so much for the like I said so much for the levity of the of the
situation or of the podcast yeah I mean yes crazy how like you know obviously I didn't know Jeff
but like how you say you're talking earlier how you know if you would have made maybe even three
three good decisions you know because like this problem like drugs and alcohol and stuff like that
as an individual problem that's not the maker or the breaker right there it's like everything put
together you know there's people who are successful that may struggle with drugs and alcohol even
for a little bit for a long time on going like you know you don't have to die you know if you
make the decision to do the mistake in my opinion but to do drugs and drink alcohol you know or have
that kind of hold you back or whatever you don't have to die from that it's like everything you know
and he could have been potentially like massively successful you know just because of decisions
that's that's the horrible thing about it is you just see the waste of human potential I guess
that's to me is the this is a horrible thing and and I got these great memories like I got them right now
I can remember doing things with him and and when you're with someone like that and you're almost
like a spectator to their life like you're get to watch him you get to go like wow look at what
he's doing this is crazy wow look at that look how funny he is you get to be a spectator and
you appreciate I did I appreciate it and right now I look back and I think about how funny and
you know I think about any random you know stand up comedian or someone on a Saturday night
live or something like that and it's like yeah I know he would have been awesome on that show
you've been hilarious on that show but never gonna happen it's not doesn't exist and
yeah so so those little decisions that people make and that kids make especially you know it's
weird to use when you're 19 years old think about think about how much you thought you knew when you
were 19 and how much you actually know knew when you were 19 it's it's it's a pathetic it's
you know so little when you're 19 you know so little when you're 19 yeah
man I feel like you kind of know it well I don't know people different but man even
29 for sure I feel like it and I know I every five years that you look back you realize
that you didn't know anything five years ago yeah and maybe someone will chime in and tell me
that when you're 72 you feel pretty good about what you know but I don't think so I don't think so
I think it's just always constantly looking back five years and think to yourself and you know I
said before I was like I think when you get to be at some point it's some some decade along there 35 40
you at least say I know I don't know everything and that is like the beginning of
knowing something because when you're like you like you said when you're 19 you know you think you
know everything when you're 23 you think you know everything when you're 26 you think you know everything
when you're 31 you still think you know everything it's not until you actually look up maybe that's
35 maybe that's 37 maybe some people get it younger where they realize you know what I don't know
everything and I need to learn more so there you go you're in a learning more yeah Q&A
the people have some questions let's see if jockel as the answers I don't I don't necessarily have the
answers the no but I have I will be able to give my assessment sure I will say this and I just
got done telling Pete this sure yesterday and I probably have told you this before if I ever tell you
I know something 100% then it's factually true but I do that so rarely it's very rare that I say hey
here's the answer I probably do that I do that very very seldom if you hear me say that
go with it it's correct you know barely hear me you probably you may have never heard me say that
up until this point nothing I can't remember yeah I very rarely will say hey look I know this
100% I used to say it once every maybe twice every six months like when I was in the two teams
I would every once in a while I'd have to say listen man I'm telling you this is how you want to do this
you you this is how you should do this I'm telling you you do it this way very seldom most of
times I look this is what I think you should do but it's your decision you can do what you want
all right well so I will give my assessment I'll give my best possible and the other thing is these
questions are there's not a lot of detail to them often or there's a ton of detail but even
a ton of detail isn't like let me talk oh you got a problem with your boss I need to meet your
boss I need to talk to him you interact with him every day I don't yeah so you need to kind of
you need to kind of modulate and and hone the answers to your particular scenario you
so what do you think about this particular scenario okay is it better to work in a mindless job
and make money or is it better to follow your passion and possibly make less money I definitely think
the best thing to do is work it a job that you're passionate about and make a lot of money that's
that's the best thing to do I do know that one that's not always possible and here's something
you got to be careful of if you ever heard people talk about making your hobby your job right and
generally that's like oh if I make my hobby my job then I'll enjoy my job right there's another
way of looking at it if you make your hobby your job you won't like your hobby anymore yeah that's
another way of looking at that so it depends on what kind of like a GG2 instructor right hey I'll
just open my own school then I'll just get to do what I love all day long you talk to a lot of
GG2 instructors after six years they don't even like go into the academy they don't want to go
to the academy anymore because it's all is oh yeah I don't want to teach it one other white belt
how to do it on our mocker over it so it's not necessarily the best thing to make what you're
passionate about and there's some people that teach you to do every single day and they love it
and that's awesome and so they've they've won right because they're making money they're doing
they're having a good livelihood and they enjoy doing it so yeah but my goal would be to do something
that I'm passionate about at the same time you got to set yourself up so that you're not stuck
without any money right because passion doesn't pay the rent I'll tell you an example of this
Greg Train sure years ago Greg Train said to me hey here's my options I can like kind of
scrape by teach wrestling teach some GG2 and train to fight or I can guy got accepted into this program
to be an x-ray technician and he asked me he's like what do you what do you think I should do this
is a long time ago it's probably like 10 or 12 years ago maybe even longer anyway so he asked me
and I said listen how many hours a day do you want to train and I said how many hours they can you train
and he's like I don't know maybe three or four hours a day okay so if you want to do this three or
four hours a day and you're not going to make any money what you're going to do with the other
whatever 20 hours a day you could actually build a career and make real money doing the x-ray thing
and then you could still easily because you work eight hours a day I was like I was like Greg
I work 12 hours a day I work 14 hours they I'm still here training you can work in eight
hour a day and still train and you can train four hours a day and you can be fine and you'll have money
you don't have to worry about paying the rent you don't have to deal with the buy you know nice things
you'll have medical insurance all those things and he made the decision to go to x-ray school and he ended
up doing great in GG2 and doing great in fighting and he ended up getting some injuries that were
like if he would have just been a fighter they would have been really problematic because you know he
couldn't fight for a long time he so that's the kind of that's the kind of judgment call right you can make
now what what this question is saying though is can you do something when you make a little bit
last put your passion about that's that's pretty easy call as far as I would start if you just
make a little bit last put you love doing it well that's kind of a no-brainer right isn't it
now you gotta ask yourself where does that put you in the future and then you gotta ask yourself
on the other side is could you do this job that you don't really like for long enough that you could
make a difference like you could do this job that you don't like and you all said you got a down payment
for a house and then you go by a house you see what I'm saying yeah so that's that's not a bad movie
a bad move either but you could also this is where people trap themselves they have the job that
didn't like they're making a little bit more money and instead of investing towards getting out of that
job and setting themselves up so where they can do something that they are passionate what they do is they
expand their lifestyle yeah that's the big mistake they expand their lifestyle and all of a sudden
you know they're making a hundred thousand dollars a year at this job that they don't really like
the other job they were gonna get seventy five thousand dollars a year and that that's not bad right
I would probably go for the thing that I really like doing if it's a difference of twenty five thousand
dollars that's kind of a no-brainer to me what does the person do they say okay well I'll just stay in
this job so I can make enough money to get a down payment on a house and then what do they do they buy a
new car they go out to dinner every night they spend that extra twenty five thousand that they could
be putting into saving up for down payment they spend it on stuff that they don't need to end up with
a hundred and ten thousand dollar lifestyle while they're making a hundred thousand dollars a year
and they actually go into debt and now they're further away from the job that they wanted yeah
so I guess the answer here is and I've said this before come up with an exit strategy
with contingencies if things go wrong and then plan save prepare and then execute
you you meet somes like a good plan good take on it what's something they I found that when you
make your hobby your career there a lot of times like when you have fantasies about doing your
hobby as a crit let's say I'm a photographer right that's a big one that's a common one that's heard
there'll be like okay because I like taking pictures I like you know I don't know maybe traveling
or I don't know whatever whatever I like taking pictures of I like that kind of subject to uh but
so a lot of things when you're you know a creative person or you're into let's say you make baskets
you make the awesome baskets but to make it your career a lot of the times it comes with like
50% if that a hundred percent additional chores and tasks but running that business yeah I was
going to say yeah you like making baskets oh yeah cool and what you end up doing is making
thousands of the same baskets that you put their green with the Easter Bunny in it and that's
what your job is to weave that basket over and over again everything that you're doing it for is
now gone yeah and and guess what you have to do it and you have to do you have to like it as a hobby
that's kind of in my opinion pretty much the one of the two things that make a hobby so great is because
it's fun to do and you don't want everyone as long as you have the time as long as you do whenever you
want if you don't feel like that if you don't do it like if you don't feel like golfing tomorrow you
yeah or you don't feel like golfing or are you gonna go no no no you know of course not you don't
have to but if you love making baskets and you don't feel like it and you're like I guess what you
gotta make a thousand of those I know you don't feel like you've been making one you gotta make a
thousand or make sure they're done or something like man I used to love this thing now I don't
really like it because all this pressure which had nothing to do with my hobby by the way nothing
now it has everything to do with my hobby now you got I had not have people calling me saying hey
where is my basket hey I'm the basket maker I say when the basket gets made kind of thing
that's gone so yeah so you don't really like it and so yeah you got the repetitiveness the
like we call lack of control lack of control the pressure the pressure and then that's not
mentioned like the day to day chores that allow your hobby activity to be a business or or
career whatever man it's a lot like freaking taxes and taxes doing all the yeah man you know
how like when you're you work at like a job and the taxes are just taking out the taxes
taking out and all this stuff but man you're weaving baskets you know in your in your new garage or
whatever man you gotta do taxes all this I don't know man this is just a lot more to it
we'll see a child from hobby to career yeah that's true so that's my my shout out to my tax guy
man he rocks so hard is the best guy ever yeah I can dig it but yeah so there's that and then
but yeah if you're prepared for that though if you're totally prepared for that or if you kind of
like business you know that part of it because there's a lot of chores in business yeah and if you
like that stuff oh man that can be good but yeah and oh and here's the thing too about when you
get a good job I'm not a good job but a high paying job but you don't like it this is why this is
what I think anyway I don't think I've ever had a junk job that paid a lot you just had junk
low paying jobs yes yes yes so I had a few of those yes for sure so okay I go I wake up I go to
my job drag myself to my job right drag myself and then I can't wait to get home and get home and
get that paycheck after a week two weeks or whatever get that huge paycheck then I got to drag myself
to my job again and I go home and I can let me read so basically your day to day for that junk job
is so junk I need something I need pleasure I need some pleasure in my life by that cool new car so
now oh sure I'll drag myself to my job but at least I'm rolling in that new nice new car
or but eventually you trap yourself with that car that car is right trap because that becomes
the focus a lot of times yeah you know like to make up and I believe so this is an interesting
thing I've thought about people like to make things people like to make things like it's it's
it's a good feeling to make something to create something and I think a lot of the consumer
attitude comes from the fact that look I don't have time to go and build the desk and I wish I
did have time to go build a desk but I'll just go click on this button and the desk will show up
my house and it's kind of like I create it something yeah well there it is and that gives you that
but the thing is it's a short term gratification yeah that's why it keeps going because you go okay
I really like to make a desk but I'm just gonna buy this one or I'd really like to you know what I love
to do is just is just completely refurbish an old car oh I can't do that but guess what I can
I can just buy a new car and then I'm rolling it feels good for a minute but you don't get the
pure you don't get the deep satisfaction that you would have gotten had you refurbished the car
so you get you drop yourself so keep your spending and check this is another part of this whole deal
yeah spending and check but that's spending feels so good and then you know how like
it depends because there's sometimes when you don't have a lot of money spending hurts
you know it hurts when you're like I can't separate myself from this money yeah and you have
you have a different mindset I think but I think like a your average person me included
is like the the spending hurts when you spend spend on stuff you need rather than what you
like want you know that's so backwards that's so bad but it's a short term thing for sure it's
like the immediate like satisfaction is like when you got to pay let's say you you don't really have
dentoin shirts right or let's say you do but you still got to pay out of all whatever you have to
spend your money on that it's a $1,000 and you have $1,500 in your bank account what's it so it doesn't
feel good to spend on dental but it would have felt good to buy a new plasma screen TV that you
can watch the UFC and think about it when that plasma TV comes in you're like oh my gosh you
can't wait to hook this up this thing is awesome I'll even put it on my credit card and pay for that
thing over the next 12 months 50% interest on this thing I'll do that no problem because of that
pleasure of getting it but oh dental you mean this toothache will go away this toothache that's
causing me a migraine will go away and then I got you know then when it's time to pay that bill
it's hard man you don't really want it it's weird Chad is backwards so
all right well like I said come up with a plan come up with an extra out of G with contingencies and then
save you money and execute get some check next question how do you suggest setting SOPs
standard operating procedures we're none currently exist yeah good question and this is uh
not gonna spend a ton of time on this well the best way to to develop SOPs is to let them be
developed organically sort of from the people that are actually doing that task whatever it is
and you kind of you you just turn what's actually happening into an SOP and then if there's
multiple methods happening for something you kind of consolidate the methods into the best way
and then test them and then you'll have your SOP there one thing that you shouldn't do with an SOP
is come up with an a standard operating procedure inside of a vacuum and then push it down on the
folks below you in the chain of command because they're gonna be they're gonna reject it um they are going to
to they are going to know a better way of doing it because you made it up in a vacuum so so don't
do that now there are sometimes where let's say you're gonna do something brand new that's never been
done before and you have to kind of create an SOP then if you have to do that you you need to kind of
explain to the team hey listen guys we've never done this type of mission before we've never done
this type of project before here's my best guess at what a standard operating procedure is going to look like
we're gonna try and execute this but believe me it's not perfect I'm open to feedback and I
realize that it's gonna change but I want at least have a line for us to deviate from and actually
this is an extreme ownership I talked about how we started organizing the SSE the sensitive
slight sensitive site exploitation it's how we searched buildings and it's in the book but when
first started searching buildings we'd ever just go in and ransack everything and just throw everything
around and it was totally ridiculous and ineffective and eventually you know I said okay we need
to standard operating procedure in my system. Two commander said hey come up with a standard operating
procedure of how we're gonna do this he did that and when he did of course and it's in the book
people like oh this is gonna take forever and I was like okay listen we're gonna try it if there's
some adjustments we got to make will make them but let's at least give it a try it and that's what we did
and one of the best things you can do if you have to come up with an SOP is not only let it come
organically from the task itself but let the people that are actually doing the task come up with
the standard operating procedure so if you had if you had some project that you did over and over again
I wouldn't come and say hey here's how I want you to do this project from now on Echo I'd say hey Echo
since you're doing this all the time can you capture what it is you do and and we can take those
best practices turn them into a standard operating procedure and get them through the whole
organization and you'd say oh that's cool you would kind of feel some ownership of that and then you would
put together a good plan so that's pretty straightforward with standard operating procedures the the
main thing is let them develop let the team develop them keep an open mind don't force them
down people's throat next question I'm a 17 year old I'm a blue belt in Giu Jitsu which I received a few
days after my 16th birthday and I have ambitions of pursuing Giu Jitsu professionally and competing
to the highest level possible of course this requires discipline and commitment so during the school term
I trained Giu Jitsu Monday through Saturday and I wait train on Friday and Sunday and when I have
time off school I trained Giu Jitsu three times a day however due to my commitment to this and my
refusal to prioritize the other things over this I feel I'm missing out on the social opportunities of
this part of my life I miss parties and social events in order to train Giu Jitsu and wait train
because I know that I should have the discipline to do so however I feel lonely and isolated because of it
is this just weakness or should I make the occasional exception for a social event once again love
the work you do you and I go do it's an how it's helped me immensely thanks from you okay all right
that you okay first of all it's just okay the hardcore here's the couple hardcore answers
hardcore and it's no what's your schedule like right are you wasting any time have you have you
maxed and maximize the hours you can get out of a day or are you spending time doing other things
that you shouldn't be doing that being said it sounds like you're getting after it pretty hard
which means you're probably pretty efficient and if you're if you're not wasting a bunch of time
and you're not doing a bunch of things that are non productive and you're feeling lonely and
isolated then guess what you're going to for you don't you should not be feeling lonely and isolated
that's not good you need to relax especially because if you're training that much you're likely
over training so broadly speaking now broadly speaking training should be enjoyable okay this is
me that you're going to love it every day and I talk about that all the time this means every
day you wake up and you're all you know smile from one ear to the other you're so happy you got to
go do you know squats and deadlifts like no that doesn't happen but broadly the way it
makes you feel the way you get you makes you feel should make you yeah other times when you go on
the just too mad and you get spanked and you get ground out and you get tapped out and you feel like
junk yes that's going to happen but again broadly how does Jesus who make you feel makes you feel good
you should enjoy it to some extent right and you should not be getting burnt out and I think that's
the most important thing is that you shouldn't be getting burnt out on jiu-jitsu on working out
and this is this is important especially for your 17 years old there is more to life than
jiu-jitsu in physical fitness right there's more to there's more to there's more to doing well
in life than just jiu-jitsu in physical fitness so a couple things if you can't if you can't
like communicate with people effectively that's a real problem in any environment right and if you're
isolating yourself from other people and you're not you're not learning how to interact with other
human beings in a social environment that's not good and it's not only it's not only that it's
it's not only that it's just not good for you because yes you as a person you need to be well
rounded you need to yes you need to be strong you need to be capable from a fighting perspective
but you also need to be smart you need to be articulate you need to be quick with it
and those things are mandatory skills in life I mean if you're a black belt in jiu-jitsu
and you're a white belt in communicating with other human beings that's not going to be a good
situation for you and the other thing is the better you are the more well rounded you are in all these
other aspects of life those things will actually make you better at jiu-jitsu because you'll be
able to read people you'll be able to deal with confrontation you'll be able to understand other
people's motivations and all those things come from interacting with other human beings so I get it
I get the massive commitment and that is what it takes like if you want to compete at the highest level
I'm telling you yes you have to live breathe and eat jiu-jitsu you have to live breathe and eat conditioning
and that being said if that's all you live breathe and eat that's going to make you less
apt to be a champion then if you make yourself a little bit more well rounded in some of these other
aspects so do keep training hard 17 year old blue belt from UK keep training hard
go out occasionally hang out with some people have a good time and that by no means means get hammered
every time you do it all not at all yeah yeah yeah that's social aspect man that's like
that's it seems like a lot of times especially when you're training or you're doing something that's
kind of directly or can be viewed as like directly opposite of a social thing because you don't
when you think socially you're thinking all you guys are just slack and hanging out going to the bar cruising at the beach
whatever well while we're over here training kind of thing right just like just like people say oh you're
sleeping on the couch you know what are you lazy sleeping on the couch well I don't know maybe they need rest you know
or make there's there's there's use in sleep seems like that was a that was a little
maybe kind of a glimpse into the echo Charles world right there maybe maybe not
not live sleep on the couch maybe I need rest maybe I'm recovering from the work I just did
you seem saying I'm saying there's two parts of it you know there's that and so
and people give it a bad rap I think especially like you know how like you know you hear these
motivational gurus grind all sleep when I'm dead you know that kind of thing right yeah I say that
so yeah I you said it not me but hey all right so and I'm not saying that you know that's
dumb or nothing like that I'm saying that I'm saying that it produces a certain message that
can be interpreted in a way that might not be the most beneficial well I'm sure I think this
just I'm glad that he asked this question because he's taking the attitude of like okay
I'm gonna sleep on that and I'm gonna hang out with other human beings after my world champion
and again do you need to be possessed to be a world champion yes you do but all I'm saying is
part of the things that will make you be a better well-rounded person the more well-rounded you are
the better you're gonna perform you know you're gonna learn how to deal with anxiety you're gonna learn how to
deal with people you're gonna learn how to look at someone else's situate looking their eyes and be like
okay this guy's stressed out or this guy's panicking or this guy you know you learn those things
from interacting with the people that's gonna make you a better competitor you're gonna learn
more about yourself that's gonna make you a better competitor and you're gonna be if you if you
relax now what you don't want to do is go so far in the other direction where you when you show up
to a competition you don't feel like you've prepared as much as you could but
that what does that do you go to far in the other direction now you over-trained
so you gotta find a little bit of but sounds like you're a little bit off balance especially
because you're feeling like the words that kind of keyed me off the most in this was what was
it lonely and isolated that that's what kind of if you said everything else here and then you
are like um am I over-training? I would have said no man you're getting after a good job but then
when you say look I feel lonely and isolated you don't want to feel lonely and isolated like
and that's another thing when I change jitsu that's kind of where I hang out like I don't
interact with the normal it's a social thing we might not even talk we might not even say one word
other than do you want to roll and then we train that's sort of my social activity of
hanging around with other people and I don't feel I leave the gym and I feel like I hung around
with a lot of people I didn't say anything to them but if you feel lonely and isolated that's not
good that's getting to you that means your mind is starting to be worn down from this don't let it
get worn down it's gonna refuel you to go out it's gonna I watch this watch this if you're feeling
only isolated you're workout that day is like a nine if you feel like like hey I'm having a good
life I'm I'm filled with energy I like hanging out I just you know how to good time with this girl
last night and now I'm going to train it's like oh okay guess what that's workouts 9.7 you get a
better training because you had a good time yeah so yeah I don't like the fact that he says he's
lonely and isolated that's not good and again this is just a dichotomy because then you get someone
that says okay well jocals are go out and you don't have party you know party party party with the ladies
and then and then help my workout yeah I'll help my workout and then well you know
maybe if I only workout three times a week and I spend most of my time partying I'll be just
I'll get workouts level 11 no you won't so yeah man make some exceptions to your discipline
and go enjoy the company of some other people grow a little bit as a person become a better human
compete better train harder that's it agree so the man this is a concept that I think is if you
can kind of incorporate or understand this concept in you know when you're working hard at something
so when I was young when I first started lifting weights first started I don't know 15 or whatever
well done so you know you know how when you live weights and you get that little pump right
to me to me I thought that that's literally my muscles growing you know like I didn't know how
it all worked I was like dang my muscles I can see the growth already so all I got to do is
lift every single day watch out quick you know because most people they won't work as hard as me
because all just because I like doing it I like to pump whatever so I would do we remember
the guy my friend I mentioned Eric Masters pilot in the air force yes so he he at the one
he always said the soda above my boy anyway so I'd lift with him and his dad would invite me
my brother over we'll we'll lift we'll any start off with Bench and you know this stuff so
we go lift and I'm like dang I feel like pump so now when I when we trend kind of went into
I want to say like far city football I don't know anyway we started lifting in the weight room at
the high school so I would do the same thing every single day every single day every single day
and my friend was like this other guy you know he goes hey you are you Bench in every single day
you know it was like yeah and he was like bro your muscles aren't going to grow that's like what
are you talking about of course they do they grow every single day like I feel it even he's like bro you
don't know how it works he's like you don't when you lift they don't grow they actually get torn
they get like almost like a little micro injury that's how it works and then when you rest and when
you sleep and when you eat and they grow and it did it still didn't make sense well it's like okay I
guess you know he's like you ever you know when the the sorness you know when you get the sorness or
whatever it was like yeah he's like that's like it like hurt like kind of injured whatever and then
it has to heal up and when it heals up it heals up bigger and I'm like okay so you can't ban
to every day otherwise it'll just like it'll just won't grow it always be damaged I was like
all makes sense so that rest in between workouts it's kind of important given my goal
grow so muscles you see I'm saying where this kind of thing works like all go all go no rest
but you need that rest to grow literally and that goes for anything truth and this is kind of
the next question is very closely related to this that's why I put it kind of like right next to it
yeah and that is jockel I should have asked it muster 0's or 6 is there a dichotomy
dichotomy in the unmitigated, unmitigated daily discipline in all things yeah and like I said this is
why I put this question here because it's related to the question the answer that I just gave
which is yes you can you can overdo it and there is a dichotomy you can put so much focus on working
you can put so much working so much focus on working that you lose track of your family
and everything goes down tell with your family or you can do the opposite put so much focus on your
family that you lose track of that you don't do what you're supposed to do at work so you need to
back off a little and you get people that waste time on things that don't matter this goes back
remember the podcast we did where I was talking about how like a black belt when a white belt
is grabbing a black belt sleeve and it just doesn't matter there's people that think that
it's important that I do this thing this certain way and the reality is it's useless it doesn't
matter you're being OCD right you're being OCD so or you maybe not being full OCD but you're being
borderline you got to think about what's important and what's not important and if you're
discipline if you generally or oftentimes people that are hyper disciplined about little things
a lot of times they're missing their discipline and other areas of their life and one of them
and and you we've talked about this before too which is somebody that just because someone is
hyper disciplined in their physical fitness doesn't mean that they're disciplined in their
rest of their life in many other ways whether it's financial whether it's their relationships
whatever like everything they can be screwing every they're super disciplined in weighing their food
and doing macro calorie counting and all that stuff right and yet they haven't paid their phone bill
or whatever and they've got financial issues or they've got health like other health issues
and so you need that you need to back off enough on the little things that don't matter
that so that the things that matter you can actually take care of now the weird dichotomy in this
is again it always comes up the Russian soldiers in the Cheshiren war not shaving
is it really important that they shave not really but what's really important is that they
have discipline overall and when they stop shaving they let go of their discipline and that was the
problem now so there's about that's what I'm saying there's a balance and I guess let me let me
make that a little more clearly if we were in a war and what I was focused on was echo you better
shave tomorrow that was my big focus echo your uniform better be squared away tomorrow like that
that is not what the most important the most important thing is like echo do you understand
where the fallback positions are echo do you understand what your field of fire is echo do you
know what you're supposed to do when we start getting over run those are what's important
and but if I focus on this little thing that doesn't really matter that can that can be a problem
so I need to make sure that I'm focused on the correct things and in life yes you can unmitigate a
daily discipline if you try to apply it to absolutely everything in your life just like prioritize next
year if you try to solve all your problems at the same time you won't be able to solve any
if you try to implement perfect discipline in every single thing that you do you won't be able to
apply discipline to the things that are most important my garage gym floor is dirty
okay I sweep it I sweep it every third day I just sweep it out but I don't get in there with a bucket
and a mop and trying clean the chalk off so it's perfect black why because it doesn't matter
so some things in life are like your gym floor it just it doesn't matter if there's chalk on it
I'm gonna put more chalk on it later the chalk doesn't make me slip it doesn't make me sick
it doesn't it doesn't I don't care how it looks so don't worry about the chalk on the gym floor
in fact there's gyms in the world where you're not allowed to have chalk because they don't want
chalk on the gym floor those places shouldn't exist in the world they should be they should be
illegal yes there should be chalk everywhere yeah gym available yeah you're right so don't
focus on things that don't matter there you go you know it seems like the whole discipline
equals freedom thing and whether you agree with it or not actually you know I think you will agree with this
it's a dance you know it's a dance with discipline and freedom you mean about about about
the economy yes it's in fact a lot of book about it yeah thank you so it's gonna be
to take ownership it's just it just depends on who you are like you the discipline is going to
be taking the lead big time you know and when you exercise your freedom with I don't know I don't
know I mean chalk ice cream or something like this when you exercise that freedom it's not
gonna be very often but when you do boom yeah it's gonna have benefit yeah and that's when you
see somebody that's let's just talk about this well when you see somebody that's out of shape
you could say you could say one or two things you could say not enough discipline or you could say
too much freedom we know it's one of those two things yes have you see someone that's
having financial issues yeah it's one or two things not enough discipline or too much freedom they're
getting out that credit card when they're doing right yeah so yeah they goes without saying
that it's a balance it's the economy that's correct yeah so even and also on top of that the
discipline and all things because that's a question right in all maybe you could
maybe you could write a book called the dance of leadership
it's a copy that I got me but the in all things like discipline in diet discipline in
um you know workouts and not slack in and whatever and that looks way different than discipline
in like relationships for example like if you're like a different like to you know the discipline
not to lose your temper or they're just a plan to to respond to a maybe not discipline person
or something let's say someone you love who's who's maybe emotionally different than you
or whatever that looks and feels way different you know if you if you really think about it so
if you're like hey I'm not gonna I don't know I'm not gonna go to the park with my wife because I'm
working now that's my discipline yeah so you're lacking the discipline to
organize around your relationship with your relationship or you're lacking the discipline to
make sure that your wife understands that you're going to train yeah because I'm going to train
but as far as we're like and now that's back on the training and but like with like your relationships
unless your relationships aren't important to you which is I mean I would argue most times
there's some relationships in your life that that are gonna be important I would argue that
well yeah there should be I think so too yes so that's where you're up to before
maintaining discipline in those relationships looks different so it might not be as obvious
someone someone says me unmit it when you say unmit it get a discipline and all things I don't
think automatically right off the top of my head like oh you know my relationship with my wife
you know or even the relationship with your kids like when I think unmit it get a daily discipline
in all things including my kids so I'm gonna I'm gonna make sure they're discipline all but
the discipline of your of yourself dealing with the kids that's a whole different thing
soon saying true so you gotta get a keep those in mind oh I found myself yeah I find when I
I keep that in mind it it'll help and then yeah and do the dance with freedom you
designate how much freedom you are gonna exercise and then you do the dance
soon saying you balance the dichotomy is what you do yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
bro right you dance right it's a it and he's gone man here's the wrong thing what I made
a mistake of at one point long time ago I looked at you and I was like should I need to do that
I need to wake up I need to like do all this stuff water but if I were to do that I'd jump myself up
so I can't like you can't use like the next person as the standard as far as the balance goes
like you have to designate your own balance yeah because you have to modulate for your life
yeah whatever bro people don't just automatically know that I know I didn't
check figure it out and see you get up at 430 at any point though yeah I tried you know that
check anyway next question is there one form or type of jiu jitsu that is better
than other forms not Japanese versus small circle jiu jitsu but pressure versus movement
bottom versus top different types of quote unquote games got it yeah so if you don't know
there's different types of jiu jitsu in the world there's things like he mentioned here
there's Japanese jiu jitsu and there's something called small circle jiu jitsu and then there's
just a million different kind of random sort of names that people will put on jiu jitsu right
the one that we do is generally referred to as Brazilian jiu jitsu I just generally referred to
as jiu jitsu because that's what I'm talking about so there are different types of all the
different types of jiu jitsu the one that you should be doing is Brazilian jiu jitsu the other types
are not what you want to be doing yeah generally and yeah so that's just the
necessary out of it so now but then he's asking a different question which is inside of inside of
even Brazilian jiu jitsu there's different types of styles that people will have and these are
people go end up calling them games like what kind of game does this person have what kind of
game does that person have and different people have different games and it depends on their body
the different body types have different styles different games different even different like
cardio levels can have different games different styles different flexibility levels different
games different styles even different personalities if you have different personalities you'll end up with
a different style so the question is are there some games or some styles that are better than
other games or other styles inside of jiu jitsu and my answer to that I think is no there's not
games that are better than other games not styles of jiu jitsu that are better than other styles
of jiu jitsu it's just different people gravitate towards different ones and they use them successfully
and that's why they continue to use them I would say this though if you can then develop
more than one game right more than one game like if all you know how to do is pressure pass
that's the only kind of pass you know and you come up against someone that's really good
of getting a defending the pressure pass you won't be able to pass the guard if you're if you
have a really good top game but you go against the wrestler that's a better wrestler than you
put you on your back then that's going to be a problem so you're going to have to think people
ask is how do I develop my style the answer is you just train and your style is going to come
you you don't know that case is someone might tell you like hey you're long and lanky you should
use triangle you should set up good triangle games or good darshtokes or someone says hey you're
you got good base you should you know use a lot of pressure so there can be someone giving you some
indication but you're going to self select as you train what works and as you continue to do
what works for you you'll get better and better at it yeah that's funny you think it makes
sense like just train and it'll sort of sort itself you know your game your style like and
there the reason um it might seem kind of but the reason why I like these tall lanky guys
they'll do like triangles and stuff because when they first start training though the triangle
is going to come way easier than a guy who's not as lanky you know early on so they're
like oh shoot that's successful so it's kind of like check that that's good so they're again
boom that becomes part of their game super early so that kind of is a dominant part of their whole
game and then you know the more the more they train the more things are going to start falling into
place in their game you know and so if you have a lanky all those lanky moves are going to register
way quicker than you know a shorter guy or stock your guy that's yeah it's funny how you put
that just train it'll sort of just they reveal themselves they reveal that's all yeah they totally do
check yeah this this question also ties into the next question so I kind of coupled it up with
the next question as well did you do you feel well you know your answer to the is there a better
game or whatever I feel like you know like when you watch ADCC or something like this and then you
just have a guy like Hodger who's six four you know and then you have Marcelo Garcia you guys
who are arguably like just is good the best guy is ever to do it and they're just completely
out of your body body so yeah body types man it's kind of like when I watch those kind of like
um like you ever heard of the game mortal combat I have heard of it yeah so it's like this it's
this real violent game I was too dumb because it's like they have weapons and stuff that they
can sort of bust out random like this guy named Scorpion his weapon it's a spear with a rope
or chain or whatever and he pulls you and he does this thing and the guy who can freeze people you know
and the guy who can uh I don't know throw his hat and just cut people I don't know you know so
people have all these different weapons but then you would think hey if a guy can freeze a person
wouldn't he be the best guy you just freeze people it's all you gotta do you know but doesn't
work itself out it's whoever's good at using the little ice ray or whatever it's called
it's interesting who's better at using that spear with the rope okay we'll go with it man
but that's that's the way it works and you just do two of them just change well anyways that
question relates to the next question oh okay yes next question sure yes hi jocardo combat
oh what's the story fighter let us do there street fighter too yes actually there's street fighter
which really kind of went unnoticed I think by the general public then there's street fighter too
that's when it sort of became like this big that was like the main combat game I think with
fighting street fighter too what year was that I don't know I was in high school also I don't
90's it was good I was doing jiu jitsu yeah and uh yeah man you missed out a little bit because
there was a lot of common on anything best street fighter too with there's this guy named
gile seems gile bro I'm telling you I'm telling you revisit that or in your case visit that
gile he threw this thing called a sonic it's it's it's just look at it anyway next question jocko
there's an army cliche that I'm sure you've heard of or you've heard that goes everyone's
leadership style is different I've heard it used many times as a cover up for failed mission or
with someone who just isn't getting it done what's your opinion on this for all the advice that
you give there seems to be a continuous method to your madness and some basic principles for being a good
leader does everyone have a different leadership style or is there an optimal optimal method
with personality tweaks that's just amazing how well this jiu jitsu comparison to this is this is
this is just an incredible translation and if you know the way bro bro you see them all things
because what this question is is exactly the same as the question above and and the fact the matter is
if you know jiu jitsu Brazilian jiu jitsu you know the fundamental principles of it
you can do these tweaks if you don't know the fundamental principles of it you're just going to get destroyed
now okay if you're a catch wrestler that those have the same sort of fundamental things going on
you know what I mean if you know sombo so if you know jiu jitsu so I'm saying if you understand
I don't want to call him but if you understand like the fundamental principles of submission
grappling of any kind if you know what those are then you can make some tweaks to them you can make
some some adjustments to them to bait based on your style and your body type and your personality
and your strengths and weaknesses yes it is the same thing with leadership so people are going to have
different styles they're going to have different styles of leadership some people are super
care charismatic right and that person could take advantage of their their charisma some people
like connect with other people really easily some people don't you're going to have just different
little nuances to your personality and your brain that are going to
you that you're going to make little adaptations in your leadership style that's okay where it gets
not okay is if you leave the fundamental principles that's where you have a problem there's
an example that I thought of when I read this question there was a guy that was coming through
my training when I was running the the advanced training for the seals and he was making and
actually Lafes told story you remember Lafes told the story I think it's in the book too I don't
remember but it's it's podcast book we've talked about it in a bunch we talk about it when we
to go talk to clients Lafes tells the story about how he was trying to give commands over the
radio and no one's doing anything because it's ineffective to give commands in the radio
in a when there's a lot of machine gun firing all the stuff going on so I said Lafes
used verbal commands and he kind of like looked at me like I was crazy and I said him and just
give it a try he did it it worked a couple years later I'm running training and there's a guy
that's given a bunch of commands on the radio and I go to a my go hey man use verbal commands
and he's like what do you mean and I'm like yell at everyone so they know what it is you
want them to do they can't hear you on the radio there's a lot of stuff going on and he goes
I don't lead that way that's what he said to me I don't lead that way and you know they just
got destroyed because you know in his I don't know if he thought like hey look I'm not going to
yeah I wasn't telling them to yell at his people I was telling them like yell the verbal commands
and he wouldn't do it and they just got annihilated all the time and he ended up not doing well
as a leader because he was breaking the fundamental principles of combat leadership like simple
clear concise commands that everyone understands if they don't understand it it was fault the
does it it's yours and if you're talking on the radio given these complex orders people aren't
going to understand what to do but if you give them the the the standard operating procedure maneuver
command peel right that's going to get past everyone's gonna do it so he straight away from
the fundamental principles it's like it's like saying well you know with me if I give you
if I use a pressure point on your neck then I'll win it's like no actually that's not going to be
effective you the pressure point thing is a fantasy oh no it's real okay it is real you know what
and there's a there's certain parts of your body that hurt a little bit more when you press into
him I understand that that doesn't change you from getting choked doesn't change you from getting
double egg takedown you try to hit some of the pressure point while they're doing a double egg
takedown on you you're not gonna make it no it's not gonna happen so you you you have and I've
told this story too about the guy that wasn't very loud and I told him like hey you got to
get louder and eventually he got the guys that were loud in his platoon to start giving the verbal
commands because he wasn't loud enough to do it and that was an effective way still using the same
principle just using a little bit of a different technique that's fine so yes different leaders
are gonna lead differently but the principles are gonna remain the same the the principles of
ownership cover move simple prioritize next you decentralized command and balancing the dichotomies
and then there's plenty of them in leadership the good leaders out there they will follow those
principles and they'll make a little tweaks to them based on their personality and that's fine
but a tweak doesn't require an excuse and also effective or ineffective like if you make a change
if you do something a certain way and it's not effective then whatever you change this isn't working
it's not working so use the fundamental principles make little apt to adaptations it's okay
but if a leader is ineffective and they're failing guess what they're little adaptations like hey
I could make up a new move right for jiu jitsu and I and I call it the the whiz bang sure
and I say hey I made up this cool move it's called the whiz bang and let me show it to you and
so I show it to you and you're like well I don't know if that'll work or not and I like no it'll
definitely work the cool thing about jiu jitsu is when I try it we find out if it works
now something doesn't work immediately right but let's say I keep drilling it on you and drilling it on
you and I can never get you in the whiz bang and then I go in an internment and I try the whiz
bang and I get smashed and defeated and then I go through the consolation bracket I try the
whiz bang and it gets smashed and defeated then I go on the next tournament I try the whiz bang
and it gets smashed and defeated then again the consolation bracket I try the whiz bang
I get smashed and defeated and I do this for six months and the whiz bang never works
never works.
Effective or ineffective.
Currently ineffective.
It's ineffective.
If you're in a leadership position or someone's in a leadership position and they're failing
and they're failing to execute the mission over and over and over again, they're a little
tweak, they're a little leadership thing that they think is good to go.
It's not good to go.
And it probably, in fact, I'll tell you, it violates one of the fundamental principles
of combat leadership.
Okay, if you can identify which one of those things, it's violating.
You can get them to clean it up and fix it.
So there you go, whiz bang, don't try it.
Don't try the whiz bang.
I don't know though.
I mean, these jutsu moves, you know how like guys will like bus some moves.
Man, I don't know.
It's this endless thing.
Yes, jutsu moves.
No, no moves come out.
Yeah.
And you won't hit a move 100% of the time and you definitely won't hit it when you first
start doing it.
It's going to be hard.
Normally, arm locks, you think you put on someone before you made someone tap.
In the beginning, you probably did 50 arm locks before you got someone to tap.
Yeah, probably more.
Yeah, maybe even more.
So that doesn't mean, after the first 49 odds and effect of a mockery do I do?
Yeah.
The big differences, the big differences.
An arm lock is a proven known entity.
Covered move is a proven known entity.
Simple is a proven known entity.
No advertising execute is a proven known entity.
Extreme ownership is a proven known and decentralized command is a proven.
It's like an arm lock.
It's like a choke.
That's why when some people say to me, oh well, my boss doesn't like extreme ownership.
You know, I know what's happening.
Like it's their the boss's ego is offended because there's some other, somebody telling
them a different way to lead.
No, it's like, what do you believe in?
I don't believe in extreme ownership.
Oh, I blame and I believe in placing the blame on other people.
That's how I lead.
That's completely ridiculous.
Everybody knows that's ridiculous.
It's completely ridiculous.
Covered move.
I don't believe in cover, move.
Oh, so you just like your other team members to go and take care of themselves and you
take care of yourself.
How does that work?
Don't work.
It doesn't work.
Keep it all.
I don't like to keep things simple.
No, I like to make things so complicated that people don't understand what I'm talking
about.
Does that make any sense whatsoever?
No, it doesn't.
Okay, prioritize next cut.
No, don't do that.
What I should what I'm going to do is spread myself so thin that I don't have the
assets or resources to actually accomplish anything.
That's what I'm going to do because that makes sense because I don't believe in extreme
ownership or those fundamental laws of combat leadership.
That's where you're at decentralized command.
Oh, I don't believe in that.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to make every single decision myself from the headquarters
position.
When you guys want to make a decision out that on the battlefield or out there on the manufacturing
floor, I want you to run every single decision up through me because that's going to be
effective.
So if you violate one of these principles, you're going to have problems as a leader.
If you tweak these principles, that's fine.
If you look at decentralized command and you're like, you know what?
I know that the normal kind of span of control is five people.
I can handle more than that.
I can handle nine and you step it up.
That's that's tweak.
That's okay.
Right?
That's fine.
If you when you prioritize next Q, hey, the way I prioritize next Q, and this is the
truth, the way I prioritize next Q, isn't I look at my number one problem and I only
folks about one, I assign somebody to my number one problem.
And I say, hey, Bill, go handle that room over there.
It's a problem.
And then I look at Mike and say, hey, Mike, get the rest of this hallway cleared.
So I'm actually handling two things, but I give Bill the priority.
Right, Lord.
So that's a tweak.
I'm using assets.
That's fine.
So sometimes, yes, you've got to make these little adjustments.
Everyone's got a different leadership style, but you don't violate the principles of
leadership.
Just like you don't violate the principles of submission grappling, I'll call it.
Yeah.
Dig it.
Next question.
I'm a huge fan of the podcast, and I'd like your advice.
When I was younger, I joined the National Guard in an attempt to do something with my
life and get out of depression.
I lost my discipline and goals after basic training and continued in depression and disorganization.
I had the opportunity to go to fight to flight school, but instead tested positive on
a drug test, and I was given a general discharge.
I, of course, take full responsibility and feel like an idiot.
How would you recommend moving past this failure?
What would you have done if your seal career ended with a mistake?
Well, if my seal career had ended with a mistake, I would have figured out what my next
mission was going to be.
That's what I've done.
I mean, I would have said, OK, I like that job.
I failed at it.
What can I learn from that?
And what can I do next differently to make sure I don't make that mistake again?
I'm going to learn from the past, but I'm not going to dwell on it.
There's no point in dwelling on it.
The only point in dwelling on just to learn from it.
So that's what I would do here.
Then I would take what I learned from my experiences of where I failed.
But I would also take the positive things that I learned because even that failure is a positive.
Even that failure is a positive because you realize the value of the opportunity that you
had and you blew it and you're like, OK, I'm never going to let that happen again.
Lesson learned.
I'm actually stoked I get to learn that lesson because it's going to be more opportunities
that come up in life.
And you got to make sure that you don't disregard those opportunities when they come up.
So I would have taken those lessons learned, take that failure, and turn it into something
positive, and made good things happen.
When I figured out what my new mission to new career was going to be pretty straightforward.
You can do so much good.
Anyhow, that's going back to the story that I told about Jeff in the beginning of this podcast.
One of the wording, some of the wording that I struggled with in the kid's story, and
getting it's on the, it's the word your kid podcast.
One of the things that I struggled with in telling the story was I ended up saying Jeff had gone
too far and he couldn't correct himself.
He had gone too far and he couldn't come back.
And that's a real hard thing to tell a person and it's a real hard thing to tell a kid.
And the reason why I left it that way, the reason why I kept it like, listen.
You can make mistakes that you can't come back from, especially as a kid.
You can make mistakes that you can't come back from.
They're pretty rare, right?
There's not too many mistakes that are so grievous that you can't recover from them.
Like this guy.
Hey man, he made a mistake.
Failed a drug test, given a general discharge.
That sucks.
Guess what?
He can do all kinds of good in the world.
He can make up for that 10 fold.
He can start a business, make money, he can create a family, he can raise great kids.
And there's so many things that he can make sure his kids understand that and know that
and learn from it.
And he can make sure some other neighborhood kids and high school kids and grade school
kids.
He can make such an impact on the world by learning from that mistake.
So it's very, it's a harsh thing to say like, hey, there's some things you can't.
Now what this guy can't recover from.
And this is what the fact that you have to face.
And this is why I told it this way in the kid's story.
He didn't understand.
When he made that mistake, he didn't understand that there's some mistakes you cannot
recover from.
He can't be a pilot now.
It's not going to happen.
Zero chance of him being a military pilot.
That's the way it works.
So if I would have had the opportunity to tell him when he was 13 years old, hey, listen,
bro, I get it.
You're going to step outside the box sometimes.
But there's some mistakes that you can make that you'll never be able to recover from.
So think about what you're doing before you do them.
You need to think about what you're doing before you do them.
And if I would have had the opportunity to tell him that when he was 13 years old, he
might have had a better decision making process when he got older.
That's why I left it that way for those kids so that they recognize that there are some
things that you do as a person, as a kid, that you cannot recover from.
You cannot recover from them.
Now that being said, when you take this and you put it in perspective as an adult,
see an adult, you have much broader world to be a part of.
And just because he's not going to be a pilot, a military pilot, by the way, just because
he's not going to be a military pilot, there's all kinds of other opportunities out there.
And you can explain that to an adult, but it's hard to explain that to a kid.
So one of the opportunities, I mean, even if especially like, oh, you want to be a pilot,
cool, you can become a civilian pilot.
And you can fly, you can make things happen that way.
But what we're not going to do and what I would not do is do well on the past and do
well on what the big missed opportunity is because guess what, that's a missed opportunity
that there's all kinds of people in the world would love for that to be their biggest
mistake that they've made.
That's it.
They would love there's someone sitting in prison right now.
That's like, man, I wish all I did was get a failure drug test and I could have learned
my lesson instead.
I'm sitting here in prison or I got injured really bad because I did something that I
shouldn't have done or I made a bad decision or I got someone that I care about, hurt
or injured because I took them into, you know, car when I was drunk.
Like those are the kind of mistakes.
This mistake.
Sure, it's a bummer.
Guess what?
They're infinitely infinitely worse mistakes that he could have made.
infinitely worse.
So you're all right, man.
You're okay.
Learn from it.
Don't dwell on it.
Move on and go, go do something really positive in the world.
Yeah.
Next question.
Hey, Jockel.
What can we do with a coworker who isn't on board when someone brings up something to him?
He gets defensive and turns it into being everyone else's problem.
Hmm.
This is a Twitter question by the way.
And I answered it and I answered it really simply, really straightforward.
Take ownership of the problem and solve it.
Take ownership of the problem and fix it.
Yeah.
Because think about what's happening here.
What the person is saying, like, oh, this is me saying, oh, echo won't take ownership
of the problem.
Every time I tell him he does something wrong, he just gets defensive.
So I mean, obviously, I'm not communicating with you well enough.
If all I'm doing is blaming you and you're getting defensive and by the way, if I'm
the type of person that takes ownership of things, why am I blaming you in the first place?
I should be looking at myself.
I should be looking at myself and by the way, if echo, if you point your fingers at me and
you say, hey, this is my fault, you know what I say?
Yeah, I agree.
It is my fault.
And here's what I'm going to do to fix it.
Now I'm not going to rub it in your face.
I'm not going to do it, so I prove a point.
That's not what I'm doing.
I'm actually doing it because I want to win.
I'm actually doing it because I want to accomplish this mission.
That's why I'm going to fix the problem.
Now if we have a weak member of the team that doesn't take ownership, then guess what?
It's my responsibility to take ownership of the problem and fix it.
And eventually, but the good thing about this is if you make an excuse about something and
I fix that excuse.
And then you make an excuse about something else, I fix that one.
And then you make an excuse about something else and I fix that one.
Eventually, there's no more excuses for you.
And now you're left with what you can actually handle as echo with no more excuses to make.
And then either you're capable or you're not.
And by the way, guess what? As the leader, then it's becomes my job to get rid of you.
If you cannot do the thing that I asked you to do or that you're supposed to do for the
team.
So yeah, because eventually, if I keep stepping up and taking things away from you, there's
not going to be any more excuses.
And you'll either end up with no responsibility and therefore no value and then you have
no job.
That's the way it works.
Now, let me ask you this.
When is there a time that a subordinate does something and it's not the leader's fault?
So think about this.
And when something goes wrong with a team member, when is it not the leaders of fault?
So if you got a machine gunner and the machine gunner shoots outside of his field of
fire, clearly he didn't pay attention during the brief.
That's the problem.
If I have a machine gunner, that engages non-hospital targets.
This machine gunner's fault because he didn't do improper.
He did improper positive identification of his targets and engaged a friendlies or at least
non-hospitals.
So that's the machine gunner's fault.
Or the machine gunner's weapon goes down because the machine gunner didn't clean.
It's his fault because he didn't clean his weapon.
Maintain his weapon properly.
The machine gunner's fault.
So all those things.
The machine gunner shoots out of his field of fire.
The machine gunner engages non-hospital targets.
The machine gunner's weapon goes down.
All those are the machine gunner's fault.
Clearly.
Or maybe not so clearly.
Because here's how I would look at those things.
That's by the way, if you're my machine gunner, I put my finger at you and start yelling
at you and telling you that you did something wrong.
Obviously we know what happens.
You start making excuses and blaming other people and you don't accept irresponsible
because you get defensive and that's what people do.
So for me and what a good leader does is a good leader when the machine gunner shoots
out of his field of fire, the leader says, oh, you know what?
I didn't explain the fields of fire clearly enough for you.
I'm sorry.
I'll fix it.
The machine gunner engages on non-hospital target.
Then the leader says, hey, I should have given you better training on target identification.
We will go back and fix that.
Or the machine gunner's weapon goes down.
It means that, hey, as the leader, you know what?
I should have done a better job inspecting weapons.
I should have explained how important the maintenance was.
That's my fault.
I won't let it happen again.
So even in these instances where it's real easy to blame the individual, a good leader
instead of blaming the individual will take ownership of the problem.
That's what you do and that's what's going on in this case.
You've got a coworker that's not on board and just gets defensive and turns into everyone
else's problem.
That's right.
Grab ownership of those problems.
And by the way, the support that's not taking ownership, that's your fault as a leader.
And the way that you get someone to take ownership isn't by saying, hey, don't get
defensive.
You need to take ownership of this problem.
That doesn't make people take ownership.
Here's the tricky part.
Here's the black belt situation.
The black belt situation is if I want you to take ownership instead of blaming you,
I'm going to take ownership of the problem.
I'm going to relieve you of that.
And now you're going to go out.
No, no, no, no, no.
I should be able to fix that.
I'm sorry boss.
I'm sorry, Jockel.
I should just shop my, I shouldn't have shot outside the field of fire.
I need to pay better attention during the brief.
If I don't know what it was, I'm going to ask questions next time.
Are you sure?
Yes, I'm sure.
Please.
Let me get it fixed.
And that is how you get someone to take ownership.
You don't get people to take ownership by telling them to take ownership of things.
And there's a little dichotomy here, too.
Because if it's a plan, then the way I get you to take ownership of it is by saying,
hey, echo, come up with a plan.
We talked about standard operating procedures earlier.
If I come up with a standard operating procedure myself and then I force them onto you,
you don't take ownership of those.
Those are mine.
So I have to give you ownership.
But when it's a negative, it's one of the positive things I give it to you.
When it's a negative thing, I take it.
I take it.
Positive thing?
Give it.
Because people want that positive thing.
And it's a negative thing they don't want it, you take it from them.
And by the way, when it's a positive thing, and you give it to them, guess what they want
to do with it?
They want to share it.
They want to do it.
When it's a negative thing, and you force on them, they want to get rid of it.
So there you go.
I'm glad that this person's in the game.
And now they know on a handle, let's cut work here and make it into a good situation.
I think we got time for one more.
Last question.
Jocca.
Hey, Jocca.
How do you implement change when you know it is needed?
How do you implement change when you know what is needed to well?
And I know I need to change something.
What I do is I change it.
That's what I do.
I change it.
And I've had people that listen to the podcast, and they've reached out to me over the past
few years.
And one of the main messages that they took and put into action was actually putting things
into action.
Whatever that was, they stopped eating sugar.
They stopped sleeping in.
They started waking up early.
They quit playing video games for 10 or 12 or 14 hours a day.
They sold that Xbox thing.
There was a guy that bit his nails for his whole life.
He's like 30s.
Hey, whatever.
No big deals.
You know, he bit his nails.
Oh, you know what?
His nails are all chewed up in their bloody and their gross look in it.
He's self conscious when he's meeting people and shaking hands.
And he can't keep his hands away from his mouth while he's in meetings or interacting
with people.
But he couldn't stop.
And then he stopped.
He just stopped.
And the list goes on.
There's people that are quite drinking and quit doing drugs and quit losing their
temper and I've heard from so many different people that have implemented change in their
lives, so so many letters and messages and notes.
And I want you to know that these people aren't a bunch of elite special operations warriors.
That's not who they are.
They aren't a bunch of high level athletes or highly screened and highly trained individuals.
These are just just normal people.
Really.
But they're normal people that knew they needed to make a change.
And they decided they were going to make a change and then they made it.
And that is what I do and that is what you can do too.
If you have something to change, if you want to change something, change it, change it.
Wow.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
So echo speaking of implementing change and change in our lives to become a little bit
better.
Maybe you could help us with some things that can make us better.
Sure.
First, what's up with Mike in the Dragons?
Mike in the Dragons.
Yes.
So Mike in the Dragons is released into the world.
Now, okay.
So speaking of ownership and I know one of the earlier questions was about ownership and
I have to take ownership myself at this time because I made a mistake.
I made a mistake.
Just as I, as you pointed out, as I've talked about my publisher not ordering enough
books and how, hey, they don't order enough books.
They don't get it.
Well, guess what?
I didn't order enough books.
So I am getting them printed right now.
I'm getting them printed as fast as humanly possible.
We have multiple printers working.
And if you ordered early, you're likely going to get yours on the release date.
And I know some people have been posting their Amazon images that their Mike in the Dragons
is shipping.
So some people are going to get it soon.
But even that's not a guarantee at this point.
Even if you ordered early, I apologize.
Don't blame Amazon.
It's not their fault.
Don't blame FedEx and don't blame the post office and don't blame UPS.
If you don't get the book on time, it is one person's fault.
And that is mine.
I should have done a much better job of estimating how many books you will all were going
to buy.
And I guess as soon as I saw people that were ordering 12 books, 12 Mikey in the Dragons,
that should have been real indicator that I should have gotten more printed.
But I didn't do that.
I apologize.
You guys have ordered a ton.
And so at this point, I have a ton more being printed.
Our goal is to get them to you by Christmas.
It should be possible.
If you order now, we've got enough coming in.
They should be there to get in the stockings for Christmas.
If you've ordered, so if you've ordered though, be patient.
If you haven't ordered yet order like right now, so that I can print more.
And like I said, right now, we should have enough.
If you order right now, you should be able to get it by Christmas.
And if you want it, yeah, just order it.
And I'll just get as many printed as we need.
I apologize.
It's definitely my fault.
I was weak.
I was, you weren't weak.
No, what was I used to call it weak?
And then you'd be like, they're just being conservative.
So I was too conservative.
I balanced it too much in the wrong direction.
So order the book.
And I appreciate the few people that I've sent a copy to, the feedback has been awesome.
The book in the words of John Bosch, who did the drawing into the art.
And you're going to see, he's the same guy that the art for way the warrior kid.
This art is a totally different deal because it's beautiful.
It's color.
It's vibrant.
vibrant.
Yeah, he did an amazing job.
And he said to me, he's like, any old people say things and they say it in a certain way.
He did that.
He just goes, this book is special.
And I was like, you know the way he said it was like, and I feel that way, but you know,
of course, I'm biased because I wrote it.
But when he drew it, so he's biased too.
But he didn't say it like, hey, this book is awesome.
Normal voice.
He was like, he was like, hey, this book is, this book is really special.
And I was like, okay, so I think this book is going to be on every kid's bookshelf.
I think it's going to be right next to their copy of where the wild things are.
That's what I think, which was one of all of our favorite books when you're a kid.
And I know that's a bold statement.
But anyways, I think it's going to have a great impact on kids.
So if you want a copy for your kids, for your neighbor kids, for your library, your school,
whatever classrooms, for yourself, for yourself.
Yes, if you're 38 years old, and you want to learn a little something about the world,
about overcoming fear, about how to face things.
And you want to have it put in such a clear way, then get yourself a copy.
So right, echo, then you've read it.
I mean, obviously.
Yes or how. And you've read it to your youngsters.
Yes, I have.
And they're approved.
Approved.
Yeah, she wants me to read it again.
Okay.
Well, this one, this is a book that takes 20 minutes to read.
Yeah, maybe 20, maybe yeah, but around 20 minutes to read.
Yeah.
So it rhymes, which is fun.
Yes.
And impactful in little kids.
They love it when those things rhyme.
Yeah, yeah, they fought.
Yeah.
They follow it.
So there you go.
If you want one again, I apologize if you're not, if you don't get it on the 15th of November,
my goal is to add a minimum.
Some of you are going to get it on the 50th of you order it early.
Hopefully you'll get it by then.
But my goal, let's get it to you by Christmas.
I've got publishers all over our printers all over printing it.
So thank you.
And that's that.
Mike, you and the dragons.
Cool.
What else?
What else we need?
Well, how else can we implement change in our lives?
Sure.
Well, let you just talk today.
Once you know the way broadly you will, in fact, see it in all things.
So when you are exploring the road of jujitsu, you're going to need a key.
Even if you do just no get well, if you don't, if you only do no get that I guess you don't
need a key.
But when you are searching for a key, get it origin key.
That's it.
100%.
Yeah.
You origin main dot com.
That's where you get it.
Rushcards and there's well on the river.
Moving in America.
In America.
Cotton.
All the cotton.
Grown in America.
In America.
And in America.
By the way, it's not just cotton.
It's a special blend.
Yeah.
And a special weave by the way.
No, it's special weave.
How cool is that weave?
Like, like, no kidding.
When you see dragon weave for the first time, are you not like a little bit?
A little bit.
Impressive.
Yeah.
Use a thing too when you kind of been in the game for a long time.
Let's say you're not easily impressed by Giz.
Well, no, yeah.
No, not generally speaking, no.
But you do pay attention.
Like you don't when you grab a Giz, you're own Giz.
You're really used to your own Giz.
If you have two Giz, three Giz, four Giz and they're all kind of different ways, you know
those, right?
So when you see someone else with a Giz, you're like, okay, you know, I'm familiar with
whatever.
Cool.
But when you grab the dragon weave for the first time, especially when you've been in the
game for a while, you're like, ooh, this one is different.
Like that.
Well, I've definitely had a couple of people that only got into Giz.
Like they've only, Dave Burke.
Good to do it.
Yeah.
He's only had origin Giz.
It's just, he's just, he's just, he's just, he doesn't even know what.
All these other stories about bad Giz, he doesn't even understand the stories.
Like, oh, oh, they just, they're stinking.
They're heavy and all they written.
Oh, that's stuff.
He doesn't know anybody better than you.
Yeah.
So in a way, I kind of want to say, hey, dang, that's good for him.
He's lucky in that way.
But, hey, that's part of the game.
It's part of the journey.
Yeah.
Nonetheless, whether you do it or not, you do it, drag and leave is legit.
Are we allowed to talk about that new weave that we were exploring the other day at
your house?
Not yet.
Okay.
We're going to keep our beaks buttoned.
Yeah.
Don't forget about rash guards, though.
Yes, of course.
So when you're doing no guis, some people that use the t-shirt, I dig it.
Some people that use the dry fit.
I dig it.
To me, rash guard is the way to go.
This is why.
Because other people's toes, sometimes not all the time, could get caught in that shirt
when it's flopping around the wind.
True.
And, you know, hey, you know, it's a rash guard.
It's cool.
It looks more uniformy.
What about the scientific compression increased?
A fast-gatherty.
I'm scared of that.
Yeah.
Not, hey, man, I'm sure there is that.
There is that.
Yeah.
Oh, when you were the rash guard, when you were the compression clothing.
Yeah, like, helps with that durian.
And that's cool.
I'm not over here making those plans.
Yeah.
I am making this claim.
19% improvement when you were in the rash guard.
Based on your whole mental state.
Yes.
Agreed.
Get some.
Yeah.
And not to mention, speaking of mental state, on those days that you don't want
to train, get a new rash guard.
Those days they don't exist anymore.
And these ever formants.
Then you need another new rash guard.
Yeah, you're right.
So yeah, cool.
The compression.
Cool.
Yeah.
He was actually starting to go into it with me.
Hey, man, I could tell you, I'm like, well, man, let me go.
It's good.
We just go 19% improvement based on mental state.
Getting after it.
Yes.
Agreed.
So, yeah, some good rash guard down there.
Also, some, well, how should I say lounge gear?
Expression and so on.
That violates your whole thing.
The violates everything.
Lounge.
Anyway.
So, luxury.
You called luxury items.
Get luxury.
You'll go on here to talk about luxury.
Oh, just the concept of luxury.
Yeah, yeah.
luxury days.
Well, the sweats that they have are luxury.
And here's the thing, unprompted.
I go on Twitter.
And you know, you get people when they get their stuff.
They're like, hey, you know, you take a picture of your stuff.
Normal.
So, we go have a hoodie.
And he'll say, this is the softest hoodie I ever had.
That's the fact.
That is the fact.
Yeah.
And then there's, I didn't understand this.
And then there's the joggers.
Yes.
I didn't understand why they're called joggers.
And what their purpose is.
Old school sweat pants.
They're just, they're as I can elastic.
They're like straight cut.
Then there's an elastic thing around the bottom.
And then they're just all baggy.
The purpose, apparently, did you tell me this?
That joggers are cut tighter.
And then they have like a tighter ankle.
So you can actually jog in the neck of the purpose.
Yes.
I didn't know that.
I had no idea.
Yeah.
So when you jog, they don't flap our un and the wind.
It's not just that.
It's a whole leg.
So the whole leg kind of, it hears to your, it's more like fitted to your leg.
And then they're more roomy in the hips.
So you can have like, you know, you can spray it to jog, you can run, same scene.
They just so happen.
And that mobility that it allows for running translates 110%.
To just cruising.
When you land on them, I'm telling you, 100%.
Pick it from me.
I know.
There's some supplements on there too.
We got some, we got some supplements.
There's a matter of fact.
Good stuff.
Joint warfare.
Number one best seller.
Right.
See why?
Yeah.
Crelloel.
What?
Okay.
So a lot of people ask this too.
And you told, okay, the difference in how the people, so a guy would be like,
hey, I work a physical job.
Mm-hmm.
Eight hours, 10 hours a day.
I want to do work out of wherever my joints take kind of a beating.
What should I take?
Joint warfare or cruel oil.
So people, they will wonder about that, which one should I take?
Because they're both for your joint.
Yeah.
And the straight up answer is yes, take both of them.
You should absolutely take both of them.
If you can only get one.
If you, I would say, if you're just feeling, what's the word?
Like if you have like legitimate, soreness, real legit soreness, I would go with
don't work for.
But I like cruel.
And I think it's, I've taken these things for so long together that I just, I don't
know, it's hard for me to answer that.
Yeah.
Well, Brian would tell me that, cruel oil is for just general, you know, man, you know,
you're getting this face it.
You're getting older.
And you know, you got a maintain.
You got a maintain.
It's not getting older.
Yeah.
I believe not.
And cruel oil together.
Yeah.
Like how you were saying, you know, your joints take a beating, like
actual beating, or they kind of hurt now, then yeah, joint warfare, because they help
inflammation.
Well, actually, the cruel oil take.
I got fired up today.
I did my workout.
I threw on the weight vest.
Oh, yeah.
And I just, I just pretended like I didn't have it on, but I had it on.
From my workout.
You know, that helps, you know, like that mental state to be like, so it's a difference
between like, like, you can lift in these different ways too.
But yeah, when you put weights on you, just like, you know, some people, they'll
say, I don't know, so I'm going to baseball about something, they'll put a weight on there,
or something like that.
And mentally, if you, basically, you're training your functionality with that, and that
resistance sort of just happens to be there.
So your brain just kind of accommodates, you know, so when you function without the
weight to just flying around, it's like, easiest, like, I weigh less now, you know, rather
than then.
Oh, I'm going to just eke out 10 reps of this very specific thing.
Then you're training your body.
Yeah, I kind of did this.
I kind of did this little like a mental debate, like, oh, well, you know, I feel like
I should, I should do something a little bit more.
Maybe I'll do some rounds with this, and then I'll take it.
And I'll just, no, I'm just going to do the whole thing like I just, and I did every
exercise, even just completely unrelated exercises with with a weight vest on.
Yeah, man, that's good.
I was doing box jumps the other day, which I actually don't do that much, but like,
idea, and I'll think, man, I think here's the morning on box jumps pay attention during
box jumps.
Oh, yeah.
It's really easy, especially when you get, when you get smoked, and you start just kind
of you're just going through the motions.
And that's when you miss.
Yeah.
When you miss the box jump, you get that shinner.
No fun.
Yeah, and yes, and that's what I was thinking too.
I was like, man, when I, because like, you know, this part of the mech, I was going back
and forth.
Yeah.
It's a long thing, but box jumps part of it.
And yes, towards those later rounds, I was like, okay, I better pay attention.
Good.
Yeah.
And I was doing, I was adding a little something.
You know, when you jump down, I went down into a little squat, then did the jump.
So it's not just the box, it's like down squat, but yes, and made me think like,
I could get a weight vest in really maximized these box jumps.
Yeah, pay attention.
Pay attention.
Takes a discipline beforehand too, by the way, which is a little pre-mission
get some.
And then if you need food, if you need nutrients for your body and for your mind, then
take mook.
Yeah.
Mook, tastes like, let's just, you know what I did yesterday?
Sure.
I took whipping cream.
Heavy whipping cream.
I think whipping cream, that you turn into whipped cream.
But normally, what you put in a non-make whipped cream?
Yes.
What did you do?
I don't know.
What else do you have to do?
I had an egg white in it.
No.
You got to add sugar.
So recently, I read this thing that one of the whipped cream companies came out with
like, Reese's Peanut Butter Whip Cream.
And some other kind of whipped cream.
So you get it in a spray can.
You press the little nozzle.
She worked.
Boom.
You got, Reese's Peanut Butter Flavor Whip Cream.
And I thought to myself, yep, that sounds good.
Boy, that's the freedom part.
So guess what I did?
I took heavy whipping cream that you make whipped cream with.
And I put peanut butter moch in it.
And I whipped it.
And guess what?
Well, it is good to go.
People like getting something tasty.
Tastyness.
So yeah.
And all of them taste great.
All of them are awesome for you.
And we got mint peanut butter.
We got mint chocolate, peanut butter chocolate, vanilla gorilla.
And of course, the darkness chocolate.
And then warrior kid, warrior kid milk.
Of which look, they both taste delicious.
As a matter of fact, my son today, because it was getting cold.
And I hate saying that because we're in California.
Yeah, and cold.
This is not cold.
So everyone in Michigan, everyone peat the crew up and bathe.
I apologize.
Because it was getting cold this morning, which meant it was probably like 54.
Yeah.
Right?
Which out here in California in Southern California, it's like, oh, it was cold this
morning.
It was a little chilly this morning, a little nipping the air.
Of course, we're only wearing shorts in T-shirt.
So in Maine, I know peats up there wearing a parka.
But my son, he was jumping on his bike to go check the waves.
And he had a little, he had a little like a coffee, a tumbler, one of our tumblers.
And he doesn't drink coffee.
And I was like, what are you doing?
He goes, I made some hot cocoa milk.
And I said, let me dry it.
Wait, the warrior kid, let me dry it.
The warrior kid.
No, that was amazing.
It's just delicious.
It's just amazing.
It's like a cocoa.
Yeah, it's a cocoa.
Except, I guess what?
It's good for you and makes you strong.
Yeah.
What's up with that?
So, yeah, that's the mole.
Anyways, strawberries delicious.
Get it for your kids.
In my house, it seems to be the only thing anyone in my house is eating right now.
So give that a shot and enjoy it.
You're going to be in that, I think you might be.
What's a parka?
A parka is the coat.
It's a big coat.
We've got a winter coat.
Yeah, you've ever seen a coat that has like a fur around the hood.
Yes.
It's sort of like the quintessential parka.
I think the things are kind of dope.
The word parka is kind of, kind of, if he.
I think you've talked about it.
I don't know.
I've never heard the word.
I'm saying, go.
I mean, refresh your use.
You're used to it.
Bro, you're from Hawaii.
I do know what a park is.
You do not even see snow until like three weeks ago or something.
No, for real, you didn't see snow until you were 30, right?
Technically, I saw snow on the big island when I was a little kid one time.
Yeah.
And you go up in Manakia and you can see snow.
We went up there with shorts and a tank top.
By the way, we just drove up there.
But since then, yes, I had not seen snow until I was 30.
Yeah.
So, you know, there's no possible way you're going to know what a park is.
So, yeah.
So, which kind of is part of my point where if you've never really, I mean, I've heard the word parka,
but I'm not used to what kind of entails and what the goodness of that.
So, I'm just left with the word parka.
And a park is as far as just the word doesn't seem like, I don't know, seems like a funny word.
Well, put some context around it.
Yeah.
Freezing cold people, give them a parka.
Nice, a little warm, functional parka.
Yeah.
Yep.
Man, I dig it.
See, growing, you know, growth.
We call that growth.
I'm growing here.
Trying to speak in a growth.
You understand the path and represent at the same time.
Grow in that way.
Go to jocquistord.com.
That's right.
Jocquist is stored.
So, you can get your discipline equals freedom shirts.
Women tank tops, by the way.
Mm-hmm.
Work on men tank tops.
Men's tank tops.
I know the temperature is dropping.
I'm not going to say it's cold here.
I'm not going to say it.
The temperature is lowering.
You know?
So, I dig it if you're not going to wear the tank top all the time.
I dig it.
But they're on there nonetheless.
Uh, some hoodies.
Mm-hmm.
Either they're out now or they will be within one week from right now.
T-shirts?
How about that?
Defkortissia.
Oh, yeah.
See, you're a group of people in the deaf culture.
Right now.
That's good, because it's a...
I talked about, like, for me,
to make a statement with what you're wearing is kind of just a little bit.
I don't like that.
It's too much.
I'm not dressing to make a statement.
It's my point.
Yeah.
I don't think all.
I'm not dressing to make a statement.
I wear the functionality is primary.
Sure.
So, I don't know if I thought this shirt is functional.
Right.
It is functional.
It makes a subtle statement.
I must admit.
Well, even not making a statement is making a statement.
It's kind of like...
Let's really...
Well, yeah, well, no way.
You give you try too hard to not make a statement.
And that's just...
Yeah, yeah.
Then your...
The bigger's defeating it.
Yeah, defeating the purpose.
That's why this shirt...
Settle.
Statement made, mostly to yourself.
There's not a statement to the world because people just look at this.
We're not even think twice about it.
Maybe they think one more time about it.
Think what is that?
Yeah.
Well, if you're watching this on YouTube, they're going to notice that you're not wearing the victory.
It's not going to be huge statement.
And that's going to actually maybe even throw some people for a little loop.
And...
Nonetheless, yes, all on JoccoStore.com.
Some cool rashguards on there as well.
Some get out a little bit more.
How should I say?
Geared towards the specific path.
I've got to get enough there.
From the...
There's technically one that literally says...
Get after it.
So I guess that's point.
On point.
Hey, subscribe to the podcast if you don't.
iTunes Google Play Stitcher.
Leave reviews so that we can read them and get a good laugh from the crazy things that you say.
Thank you.
Also, the Warrior Kid podcast.
We just put out a new one.
I apologize that they come a little bit further apart than these.
I've gotten many people that have said they have been listening to the first 18 Warrior Kid podcast over and over and over again.
So I've got the literally lessons.
And I appreciate the feedback on those.
Also, you can go and don't forget your Warrior Kid soap from IrishOxRange.com.
Young by...
Made by Young Warrior Kid Aiden, who's making...
JoccoSope.
And his advice, which I totally agree with,
is get some soap so you can stay clean.
F*** it.
YouTube.
Don't forget about YouTube.
Subscribe to the YouTube channel.
So you can see echoes, legit videos.
You can see if we have guests on.
You can see who they are, what they look like, how they react, all that stuff.
You can get a feel for...
You can get to see what...
If you don't know what echo looks like, he doesn't look like what he sounds like.
So we've been told.
Yeah.
So you can see what echo looks like.
And then you can put a comment that says...
It can say, for instance, echo look in Jack.
Sure?
Or...
Damn echoes, yoke.
Or whatever.
So there's a lot of those comments that make it on there.
And I know that...
That's basically the form of compensation that echo gets for his work.
These people, sadly, people in YouTube comment saying,
Echo's got Jack guns.
So if you want to pay echo Charles, if you want to pay echo Charles,
there's no Patreon account.
There's no GoFundMe.
You just go on to YouTube comments.
And you write echo look in Jack, boy.
Oh, so there you go.
I've never covered.
Also, psychological warfare.
That's an album with tracks that we made,
and I'm going to talk about the way I'm talking about.
By the way, telling you how to get past through, get through, power through.
Those moments of weakness when they arise.
Which they do sometimes, by the way.
I know you don't know this.
Actually, you didn't know this, but they do arise.
But if Joc was there telling you how to get through it,
pragmatically, by the way.
You'll get through it.
I found that to be a fact.
100% of the time.
Also, while you're doing your workout,
you're going to go to onit.com slash jockel.
And get new kettlebells.
So I did totally revives your whole workout.
In fact, do this.
Do your normal workout.
If in fact, you doesn't have kettlebells in the workout.
And do a kettlebell.
Like maybe like a five or ten minute one.
Yeah, my son was asking me about working out.
And he was kind of like, well, I just want to get like,
like, like, what big muscles?
Just get strong.
And he can do the, or has done the kettlebell snatch.
But I was like up the way a little bit and throw that thing up there.
And I go every time you have to stop that thing in the top position,
it's your whole body has to kind of put some effort into it.
You will have, if you haven't done it before.
And you go a little bit heavier than like what you,
which I don't, you know, could be careful.
But I'll blah, blah, blah, whatever.
Okay.
So if you go a little bit heavier, you will have like sore abs.
You're abs will be sore.
So you're post your your chain.
Sure.
Will be.
Yeah, that's a real thing.
I know it's a pro.
You're post your your chain because there's people like,
what do you want to do?
No, so you're post your,
tear your chain will be,
get work, but believe it or not,
your front and tear your,
your and tear your chain will get work too because it has to,
arrest.
Yes.
That weight, which is flying up there and then asked to stop,
otherwise it ripped your shoulder out,
which is why I should be careful.
Don't go too heavy.
But it's, and so my, you know, my bicycle is,
it's killing.
It's almost there man,
or almost there.
But one of the things I could straight up,
not even start doing until very recently is kettlebells on that side.
You know, because it slaps around.
Yeah.
It twist it, twist your wrist in this way that it really,
it puts, so I even want to go on a light one.
And it's weird because the pain is less there,
more so than just kind of the raw,
newness of my arm going through that whole kettlebell procedure.
So I'm saying, so like, you know, when the thing comes up to a rest right here on your wrist,
just it's sitting there on your wrist.
It has to rest there and your wrist,
your wrist is twisted in a certain way.
You know, it's cool to normal if you don't,
but man, it's weird the difference of my right hand,
my good hand and my bad hand.
Just the thing resting on the thing is like,
you know, like, giving.
So you lack the conditioning.
Yeah, but conditioning is faded.
Just in your little,
just in your little pressure in the,
yeah, yeah, yeah, toughness.
The toughness.
I felt that the other day when we were rolling.
Oh, that my toughness.
Yeah, just like a, a dissension of toughness.
Yeah, yeah, no, no, no, no, didn't see us.
I was just, I was taking it light, you know, same thing.
You're really happy with that.
I'm just saying, I don't forget about Jockel White T.
It is certified as the only beverage,
whether you get it in the can or you get it in the bag,
and you steep it yourself.
Either way, it is the only beverage in the world
that comes with a 100% money back guarantee of an 8,000 pound deadlift.
Good.
Which is really good.
And it's organic, by the way.
It's organic on top of that.
It's something so tasty.
And as the winter arrives,
and it gets really cold.
I am California, sorry.
Yeah, my people of the north.
To get that warm tea going, just put a couple bags.
Now, some people worry about how long you should steep,
do you know what steep the tea means?
I do know, yeah.
Okay, yeah.
So how long should you steep the tea?
In my opinion, when I put a tea bag in,
it's not coming out.
Oh, straight out.
I just leave it in there.
I'm just going to, I'm going to leave it in there.
It's good to go to drink and you know, like a couple,
like a minute, or maybe two minutes.
But then I'm not taking that tea bag.
I'm going to get all that, all that,
all that pomegranate goodness, all that,
all those antioxidants are coming right into my system.
So I'll let you know.
And it tastes delicious,
and it does have caffeine in it.
I will say.
So the cans have 60 milligrams, depending on how long you steep.
And I think when you steep it like I do,
there's probably a little bit extra,
a little bit of extra.
Get some.
Sure.
Inside there.
Steak is there.
Also got some books.
Okay, where the warrior kid?
And Mark's mission.
Those are two kids books,
but I promise you that Uncle Jake has lessons for everyone.
Yeah.
Agreed.
And I'm one of those people.
And so I think when you read that to your kids,
oh well, in my case,
because I thought I can't quite read a book.
Yeah.
So I'll read it,
but I feel like I'm reading to myself too.
Like these are all things that I,
some that you forget.
I think as an adult,
you forget a lot of these lessons.
You know, because now you have a routine.
As an adult,
you have a routine.
Some of these lessons.
It feels like they don't apply it first, you know?
So you kind of forget them and you're not.
Man, I wish I could just incorporate that little thing.
One of the fundamental laws of combat is simple.
Yeah.
And way the warrior kid is the,
it's life rules.
But fourth,
in a very simple way that a young child could,
understand them.
But what surprising is in that simplicity,
it hits anyone,
solidly right between the eyes.
So that's way the warrior kid and Mark's mission.
You can get those.
Also about the discipline equals freedom,
field manual.
That's another one that if you,
if you re, or if you refer to,
it'll like remind you,
because like,
okay, so,
man,
I don't meditate.
I don't.
Like, you know, like,
for like,
okay,
it's arguably,
it's meditation.
It's not, it's not,
it's not meditation.
You know what,
they're talking about.
So,
from what I understand,
if you meditate on certain things,
they help like incorporate it into your,
you know,
your whole normal thought meditate,
whatever.
That's what I would start with,
finally.
But,
and then you would need,
and this is just my,
my thought about meditation,
you would need less reminders of certain things,
you know,
like,
yes.
How to,
like,
detach is,
for whatever reason,
what I understood,
the,
the concept of detach,
and the importance of it.
That's,
that's to me,
just kind of established itself as like,
pre,
one of the most important things
that you can roll into your life,
that'll improve it right away.
That's like,
right then in there.
But,
the thing,
just like,
you said,
you got to notice when you got to detach,
you know,
it's not detached into the heart part.
It's to notice,
you know,
it's time to go and,
so for like a better term,
you're forgetting to detach right now,
because you're so distracted by all the feelings,
whatever.
So it's one of the,
so the feel menu is like a really good one.
So like,
man,
if you can refer to that boom,
and this goes for all the subjects in there,
by the way,
like so like every day,
even every other day,
two,
three days,
whatever,
just refer back to it,
man,
it helps.
It keeps it on your mind,
all these things.
Yeah.
It only does.
People post pictures of,
the feel manual.
Yeah.
Like one,
like one page,
two pages of it.
And when I,
whenever I,
when someone posts a picture of that,
I actually read,
I wrote the book,
but I still read this section and say like,
and it,
and I don't read it and go,
oh,
I remember writing that.
I actually go,
I can do that better.
Yeah.
I want to do that.
I need to focus,
you know what I mean?
Yeah.
And you said good thing about that,
where overwhelmed,
right?
That was one that,
I don't even know who posted it first,
but it was like,
it's on front post today,
and like,
JP,
maybe,
yeah.
Yeah.
So that was one where it's like,
you know why they're,
you know why people are posting that,
because when they read it,
when they go,
they refer to it.
They're like,
oh,
click again.
Let me,
you know,
because that's kind of the whole nature,
post-leandings.
So the boom,
that's exactly what's happening.
So it's like,
boom,
I need to remember that one.
It's not like that's the first time they read it.
Maybe it is,
it's not,
but most of the time,
it's like,
okay,
I refer back to that.
And they're going to be posted.
So it's doing exactly what I'm saying.
It's reminding you.
Like,
I'm so overwhelmed.
And the,
you know,
certain ones apply to you at certain times,
too,
you know,
so it's like,
good man just to refer back to that.
So did I do it?
It will keep you on the path.
If you want the audio version,
it's not available on audible.com.
It's available on iTunes,
Amazon,
music,
Google,
play in other MP3 platforms.
Also extreme ownership.
Every different type of organization.
That's what everyone at echelon front does,
which is our leadership consulting business,
which is me and Lave Babin and J.P.D.D.
and Dave Burke and Flynn Gawkerna and Mike Surelli and Mike Bima.
That's what we do.
We talk about the fundamental principles that are in that book,
that we brought home from the battlefield.
And that book,
extreme ownership.
After we got done writing that book and taught that stuff,
we wrote another book.
It's called the dichotomy leadership,
which we also talked about a bunch of things.
Because you can't talk about leading human beings
without talking about extreme ownership.
The fundamental principles of the laws of combat.
And then when you start talking about that,
you've got to talk about the dichotomy leadership.
So those two books are also available.
And what I like seeing is when I got just saw on today,
Guy had probably posted a picture of 30 copies of the dichotomy leadership.
He's like, this is going to the whole team.
Because that's how you get everyone aligned.
You make everyone see,
oh, you know what?
I'm going to think of this way.
Now, some people go, oh, I don't want to share this secrets.
They want to keep it for themselves.
That doesn't help you.
You don't do better.
You do better if everyone understands the principles.
That's going to make you do better as the leader.
And by the way, if you're out there trying to do better for yourself,
don't read the book, go and do something else.
Because I don't even want you around.
Oh, just for yourself.
If you're just trying to look out for you,
the principles aren't for you.
You won't understand them properly.
So, and yet, if you want to win,
the best possible way to win,
by the way, isn't by looking out for yourself.
It's by looking out for the good of the team.
It's by looking out for the mission.
That's how you win.
And that's what these books will help you do.
So, there's those Asseline Front I already talked about at leadership consultancy.
If you want us to come and work with your company or come and speak to your company,
go to Asselinefront.com.
Don't contact the speakers bureau.
Don't Google Jocco speaking.
Because it will be a random speaking agent that you'll then have to work through.
Just contact us or company Asselinefront.com.
The Master, we have Master 7 and 8 in 2019.
Check X-rayMotorship.com.
Those are our leadership conferences.
And all of them have sold out.
Did I say some of them have sold out?
Nope.
All of them have sold out.
And they are all going to continue to sell out.
So, look for the details when the opportunity,
when we put the details out,
and you want to come sign up, that's extremotorship.com.
And then Overwatch is our business where we are taking special operations,
leaders, combat aviation leaders, and placing them into civilian organizations.
That need leadership, experience and trained leadership.
So, if you want to get involved with that, which ever side you're on,
efoverwatch.com, go there and you'll figure out which way to go,
whether you're someone from our communities or you're someone that needs leaders from our communities,
go and make that happen.
And if you want to stay on the path with us,
we are available on the interwebs,
on Twitter, on Instagram, and on that Facebook, people.
Eko is at Eko Charles and I am at Jocco Willink,
and thanks to all the military personnel worldwide.
Worldwide out there in harm's way holding the line.
And here at home, thanks to police and law enforcement and paramedics and EMTs and
correctional officers and border patrol and first responders.
And at this moment, actually, especially the firefighters out here fighting these
crazy and powerful fires in California,
thanks to you all and it was a lot of police and EMTs and paramedics supporting them as well.
Just all of you.
Thanks for risking your lives to make us safer.
And to the rest of you that are out there carrying on your mission.
Whatever that may be, but if you're listening,
I know you're in the game and trying to get better,
just like we are.
And if there's a change that you need to make in your life,
you know what you need to do.
Get after it and make that change.
And until next time, this is echo and jockel out.